README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/rachjgriff/bank.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/rachjgriff/bank)

# RACHEL GRIFFITHS: BANK CHALLENGE
----------
## PROJECT DESCRIPTION
----------
* Wk 10 Makers Tech Test Challenge
* Banking application to be accessed via a REPL
* User can make deposits and withdrawals, and access an up to date account statement.

## TECHNOLOGY
---------
* GitHub - Version Control
* Ruby 2.6.3 - Language
* RSpec - Testing Framework
* Rubocop - Linter
* SimpleCov - Test Coverage
* Travis - Continuous Integration

## INSTALLATION
---------
```
git clone git@github.com:rachjgriff/bank.git

bundle
```

## TESTING
---------
```
rspec

rubocop
```

## INSTRUCTIONS
---------

## REQUIREMENTS
---------
* Deposits, withdrawal.
* Account statement (date, amount, balance) printing.
* Data can be kept in memory (it doesn't need to be stored to a database or anything).

## ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA
---------
* **Given** a client makes a deposit of 1000 on 10-01-2012
* **And** a deposit of 2000 on 13-01-2012
* **And** a withdrawal of 500 on 14-01-2012
* **When** she prints her bank statement
* **Then** she would see

```
date || credit || debit || balance
14/01/2012 || || 500.00 || 2500.00
13/01/2012 || 2000.00 || || 3000.00
10/01/2012 || 1000.00 || || 1000.00
```

## APPROACH & STRATEGY 1
---------
* 2 possible classes: BankAccount, BankStatement
* Methods:
  * deposit
  * withdrawal
  * balance (intialization)
  * statement
* Store transactions

##### QUESTIONS/THOUGHTS
* How do I set date as the key in transactions hash?
* Should transactions be a method?
* How do i link the 2 classes?
* Need to ensure that **credit** is left blank if only a **withdrawal** is made
* Need to ensure that **debit** is left blank if only a **deposit** is made
* Is the client allowed to have a negative balance and continue to make withdrawals?
* Can the client make more than one deposit or withdrawal a day?
  * If so, should the credit and debit amounts sum these for that day?
  * Or can there be more than one entry for the same date?
* Does the date auto-generate or get added manually?
* How to store transactions?
  * in a hash: { date => [credit, debit, balance] }
  * in an array: [date: , credit: , debit:, balance: ]

## APPROACH / STRATEGY 2

* Class BankAccount
  * Initialize with:
    * @transactions = [date: , credit: , debit: , balance: ]
    * @balance = 0
* Methods:
  * update_balance(date: , credit: , debit: )
    * This will update balance and push information to @transactions
  * print_statement
    * This will take @transactions and format according to requirements above

## APPROACH / STRATEGY 3

* Combined Approach 1 & 2
* Class BankAccount
  * Initialize with:
    * @balance = 0
    * @transaction = {date: "", credit: 0, debit: 0, balance: @balance}
    * @transactions = []
* Methods:
  * deposit(date: , credit: )
  * withdrawal(date: , debit: )
  * record_transaction
  * statement


## USER STORIES
---------

As a new bank account holder  
So that I can open a bank account  
I have a zero balance

As a new bank account holder  
So that I can open a bank account  
I have not made a transaction 

As a new bank account holder  
So that I can open a bank account  
I have made no transaction history

As a bank account holder    
So that I can save for a holiday  
I can deposit money into my bank account

As a bank account holder  
So that I can buy lots of nice clothes for my holiday  
I can withdraw money from my bank account

Commit message:

USER STORY: Balance updated when credit made & transaction is tracked

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/rachjgriff/bank.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/rachjgriff/bank)

# RACHEL GRIFFITHS: BANK CHALLENGE
----------
## PROJECT DESCRIPTION
----------
* Wk 10 Makers Tech Test Challenge
* Banking application to be accessed via a REPL
* User can make deposits and withdrawals, and access an up to date account statement.

## TECHNOLOGY
---------
* GitHub - Version Control
* Ruby 2.6.3 - Language
* RSpec - Testing Framework
* Rubocop - Linter
* SimpleCov - Test Coverage
* Travis - Continuous Integration

## INSTALLATION
---------
```
git clone git@github.com:rachjgriff/bank.git

bundle
```

## TESTING
---------
```
rspec

rubocop
```

## INSTRUCTIONS
---------

## REQUIREMENTS
---------
* Deposits, withdrawal.
* Account statement (date, amount, balance) printing.
* Data can be kept in memory (it doesn't need to be stored to a database or anything).

## ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA
---------
* **Given** a client makes a deposit of 1000 on 10-01-2012
* **And** a deposit of 2000 on 13-01-2012
* **And** a withdrawal of 500 on 14-01-2012
* **When** she prints her bank statement
* **Then** she would see

```
date || credit || debit || balance
14/01/2012 || || 500.00 || 2500.00
13/01/2012 || 2000.00 || || 3000.00
10/01/2012 || 1000.00 || || 1000.00
```

## APPROACH & STRATEGY 1
---------
* 2 possible classes: BankAccount, BankStatement
* Methods:
  * deposit
  * withdrawal
  * balance (intialization)
  * statement
* Store transactions

##### QUESTIONS/THOUGHTS
* How do I set date as the key in transactions hash?
* Should transactions be a method?
* How do i link the 2 classes?
* Need to ensure that **credit** is left blank if only a **withdrawal** is made
* Need to ensure that **debit** is left blank if only a **deposit** is made
* Is the client allowed to have a negative balance and continue to make withdrawals?
* Can the client make more than one deposit or withdrawal a day?
  * If so, should the credit and debit amounts sum these for that day?
  * Or can there be more than one entry for the same date?
* Does the date auto-generate or get added manually?
* How to store transactions?
  * in a hash: { date => [credit, debit, balance] }
  * in an array: [date: , credit: , debit:, balance: ]

## APPROACH / STRATEGY 2

* Class BankAccount
  * Initialize with:
    * @transactions = [date: , credit: , debit: , balance: ]
    * @balance = 0
* Methods:
  * update_balance(date: , credit: , debit: )
    * This will update balance and push information to @transactions
  * print_statement
    * This will take @transactions and format according to requirements above

## APPROACH / STRATEGY 3

* Combined Approach 1 & 2
* Class BankAccount
  * Initialize with:
    * @balance = 0
    * @transaction = {date: "", credit: 0, debit: 0, balance: @balance}
    * @transactions = []
* Methods:
  * deposit(date: , credit: )
  * withdrawal(date: , debit: )
  * record_transaction
  * statement


## USER STORIES
---------

As a new bank account holder  
So that I can open a bank account  
I have a zero balance

As a new bank account holder  
So that I can open a bank account  
I have not made a transaction

As a new bank account holder  
So that I can open a bank account  
I have made no transaction history

As a bank account holder    
So that I can save for a holiday  
I can deposit money into my bank account

As bank account holder  
So that I can ensure my bank account has been updated correctly  
I can track my transaction

As a bank account holder  
So that I can buy lots of nice clothes for my holiday  
I can withdraw money from my bank account
